---
layout: post
title: jekyll-introduction
category : essay
tagline: "Supporting tagline"
tags : []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

##规范说明
* a文件名都使用英文，不要有空格（用-代替），全部用小写字母
* b不要自己新建md文件，直接复制 2011-12-29-jekyll-introduction.md 免得出不必要的错误

##本地目录说明
* Essay: 随笔 记录行业发展，自己的理解、思考等一些宏观的笔记或摘录
* TechNotes: 技术笔记  记录在技术上的笔记。
* mankou: 与我相关的信息汇总。如readme 近况 联系方式等。

##category说明
* TechNotes/技术笔记
* Essay/随笔
## Overview 

### What is Jekyll?

Jekyll is a parsing engine bundled as a ruby gem used to build static websites from
dynamic components such as templates, partials, liquid code, markdown, etc. Jekyll is known as "a simple, blog aware, static site generator".

### Examples

This website is created with Jekyll. [Other Jekyll websites](https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll/wiki/Sites).



### What does Jekyll Do?

Jekyll is a ruby gem you install on your local system.
Once there you can call `jekyll --server` on a directory and provided that directory
is setup in a way jekyll expects, it will do magic stuff like parse markdown/textile files, 
compute categories, tags, permalinks, and construct your pages from layout templates and partials.

Once parsed, Jekyll stores the result in a self-contained static `_site` folder.
The intention here is that you can serve all contents in this folder statically from a plain static web-server.

You can think of Jekyll as a normalish dynamic blog but rather than parsing content, templates, and tags
on each request, Jekyll does this once _beforehand_ and caches the _entire website_ in a folder for serving statically.

### Jekyll is Not Blogging Software

**Jekyll is a parsing engine.**

Jekyll does not come with any content nor does it have any templates or design elements.
This is a common source of confusion when getting started.
Jekyll does not come with anything you actually use or see on your website - you have to make it.

### Why Should I Care?

Jekyll is very minimalistic and very efficient.
The most important thing to realize about Jekyll is that it creates a static representation of your website requiring only a static web-server.
Traditional dynamic blogs like Wordpress require a database and server-side code.
Heavily trafficked dynamic blogs must employ a caching layer that ultimately performs the same job Jekyll sets out to do; serve static content.

Therefore if you like to keep things simple and you prefer the command-line over an admin panel UI then give Jekyll a try.

**Developers like Jekyll because we can write content like we write code:**

- Ability to write content in markdown or textile in your favorite text-editor.
- Ability to write and preview your content via localhost.
- No internet connection required.
- Ability to publish via git.
- Ability to host your blog on a static web-server.
- Ability to host freely on GitHub Pages.
- No database required.

